# Introduction

Hey, guys! I thought I'd write a step-by-step guide to help you all obtain
digital freedom, and therefore digital privacy.

First of all, what is "digital freedom"? Well, it's the basic idea that you
should be able to do as you please with your software, your electronic devices,
and online.

Most people don't want their digital devices giving away their confidential
data. Thus, part of making your digital things do what you want is making them
not give away your confidential data without your permission. That's called
digital privacy. The only way to get digital privacy is to give yourself digital
freedom.

The path to digital freedom will involve some changes in the way you use your
electronics. You might not like some of these changes. I promise, though, it's
all worth it in the end.

The first step is to secure your presence online. Every day, you are likely
subject to tracking, targeted advertisements, and the sale of your personal
information to people you wouldn't want knowing your name. Moreover, the same
people who profit from selling your information are often forced to hand it over
to the ~~thought police~~ American National Security Agency (NSA), without your
knowledge or permission.  Our wonderful overlords at the NSA think your freedom
is less important than a vague threat of terrorism.

Even if you don't care about your own privacy, you certainly have friends or
family members that do.  In the interest of being considerate, you should obtain
your digital privacy to protect others who want theirs.

Even if you are super careful, and don't share anything about your
privacy-seeking friends, data about you is used to target those people who
prefer to keep their lives private. (This practice is more commonly known as
"social networking"). It's incredibly unethical, but it is entirely legal (you
all probably just click "Agree" instead of reading the 1200 page document of
Terms & Conditions).

You may not even realize that you are subject to this mistreatment; you may just
think it's business as usual. I'm going to show you exactly what this
mistreatment is, and how to escape it.

Regardless of your political views, I don't know of anyone who wants to hand
over their deepest, darkest secrets to some large company, much less a
government known for blackmail, extortion, and harassment.

# The three steps

I hinted at this in the introduction: there are three basic steps to getting
your digital freedom back.

1.  **You are going to quit giving away your information on the internet.**

    This involves closing your accounts on things like Facebook, Google, and
    Tinder. These companies are notorious for selling your confidential
    information in the interest of making money. They also happily hand your
    data over to the NSA.

    You can keep your accounts on services that respect your freedom, such as
    Identi.ca and Twitter. You're only going to delete your accounts on services
    that purposefully violate your freedom.

    In many cases, the alternative services I recommend do cost
    money. **However**: the software I recommend in step 2 does not cost money,
    unlike the software you are likely currently using. Even though you will
    probably be paying more for online services, you will no longer be paying
    for software, so you'll actually save money.

2.  **You are going to quit using software on your computer that violates your
    digital freedom.**

    This is software that tries to control how you use it. Very often, this is
    the same software that the NSA controls, or some large company
    controls. Instead, *you* will control how your computer works. It's quite
    liberating.

    In this process, you'll also make your computer less vulnerable to viruses
    and hackers.

3.  **You are going to quit buying material items that violate your digital
    freedom.**

    This includes: proprietary game consoles with cameras, Blu-ray disks,
    anything made by Apple,

    You don't have to get rid of your current items, this is just for future
    reference. I will show you how to salvage what's left of your freedom on
    your current items.

These three steps are ranked in order of importance. You should go through with
them all. However, gun to your head, the first one is the most important.

## Step 1: Stop giving away your data on the internet

This is the first step towards getting your digital freedom back. It's the
easiest step, and it is the most important, hence why it's first.

### Step 1.1: Fix your web browser.

[According to Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usage_share_of_web_browsers#Summary_table),
anywhere between 80--90% of internet users use browsers that don't respect their
freedom. Here is a list of good and bad browsers:


Good                        Bad                 Ugly
------------------------    -----------------   -----------
Firefox                     Chrome              Jumanji
IceCat                      Chromium            Midori
Tor Browser Bundle (TBB)    Internet Explorer   QuteBrowser
                            Opera               QupZilla
                            Safari              Uzbl
                                                Xombrero
-----------------------------------------------------------

The "ugly" column is for browsers that are technically okay, but are not optimal
(nor are they, in most cases, very pleasant to use).

Of the three "good" browsers, I recommend Firefox, with some extended
configuration, which I will document below. 

IceCat and TBB are both actually much better than what I recommend, as far as
digital freedom and digital privacy go. 

**However**:

*   IceCat blocks anything it deems a threat to your digital freedom. Sometimes,
    it makes mistakes, or you are willing to make an exception. IceCat isn't
    reasonable enough to figure this out, and thus is not very pleasant to use.

* TBB is the most secure option, because it encrypts your connection, and then
    bounces it through dozens of relays throughout the world (it also blocks ads
    and scripts and stuff). Although this practice is very effective at
    anonymizing your connection, the result is a very slow and shaky
    connection. Most people are not willing to deal with this inconvenience, so
    I won't recommend it for the average person.

    Nonetheless, if you need serious privacy, TBB is the best option.

#### Migrating over to Firefox

If you currently use one of the browsers in the "bad" column, you'll want to
read
[Mozilla's guide to migrating your data over to Firefox](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/import-bookmarks-data-another-browser)

#### Configuring Firefox to maximize your privacy

Alright, at this point you've installed Firefox on your machine, and migrated
your data over to Firefox. In this step, we're going to configure Firefox in
such a manner that it maximizes your privacy.

First things first, let's go into Firefox's internal settings. Click the triple
bar icon in the top right corner:

![A graphic showing which button](/images/triple-bar.png)
